Reasons for using Material Design (#45)
seedcase-project/design: decisions/why-material-design/index.qmd

---
title: "Why Material Design"

> description: "We want to Seedcase to look good with a minimal effort."

Reviewer: Showcasing a demo of Seedcase software helps make things more tangible. This
```suggestion
description: "We aim to utilise existing CSS or UI frameworks instead of building from scratch so Seedcase will look good with minimal effort. Since Material Design lives up to these requirements, we have chosen this framework for Seedcase."
```

author: "Philip Christiansen"
date: last-modified
categories:
---

## Context and Problem Statement

> Seedcase should look good with a minimal effort. Therefore, we want to leverage existing CSS or UI frameworks rather than starting from scratch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Seedcase should look good with minimal effort. Therefore, we aim to utilise existing CSS or UI frameworks instead of building from scratch.
```

## Decision Drivers

The UI framework should:

> - Should look good

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Look good
```
or alternatively: `Have a visually appealing design`

> - Integrate well with figma. The wireframes in figma should be easy to reproduce in Django templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Integrate well with Figma. The wireframes in Figma should be easy to reproduce in Django templates
```

> - Be easy to use with Django. Since Django is a python framework, we don't want to rely on frameworks that requires node/npm or too much javascript. Preferably, we want a CSS framework, where we can just add CSS classes to html elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be easy to use with Django. Since Django is a Python framework, we don't want to rely on frameworks that requires node/npm or too much JavaScript. Preferably, we want a CSS framework, where CSS classes can be directly added to HTML elements
```

> - Should have a great documentation and community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a great documentation and community
```

## Considered Options

> I have considered the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have considered the following:
```

> - Bootstrap. The oldest and most widely used css framework. It is often used together with Django and there even exist a python package: django-bootstrap5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bootstrap. The oldest and most widely used CSS framework. It is often used together with Django and there even exist a Python package for this purpose called `django-bootstrap5`
```

> - Material Design. A popular framework designed by Google. The framework has multiple implementations where https://materializeweb.com/ and https://www.beercss.com/ prioritize CSS over javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Material Design. A popular framework designed by Google. The framework has multiple implementations where https://materializeweb.com/ and https://www.beercss.com/ prioritize CSS over JavaScript
```

- Tailwind. A popular framework that allows a high customisability
- Bulma. Simple CSS only framework

## Decision Outcome

> We decided on "Material Design" because:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We decided on Material Design because:
```

> - We think it looks better than the other frameworks. Actually, this was the main driver for selecting Material Design

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We think it looks better than the other frameworks, which was the main driver for selecting Material Design
```

- Figma has great support for Material Design
- We have found two CSS frameworks, which integrates nicely with Django: https://materializeweb.com/ or https://www.beercss.com/

> Reasons for not selected the other frameworks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reasons for not selecting the other frameworks
```

- Bootstrap has great integration with Django, but we think Material Design looks better 

> - Tailwind require time and skill to customize and it relies on nodejs/npm which gives a bad developer experinence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tailwind require time and skill to customize, and it relies on nodejs/npm which gives a bad developer experience
```

- Bulma is a CSS only framework. It is easy to use, but we think Material Design looks better

### Consequences

> We might miss the better Django integration from Bootstrap

Reviewer: In what ways might Bootstrap be better? Bc of the package django-bootstrap5?

Author: Yes, the in the django-bootstrap5 package you can import "components".

For instance, we can add a bootstrap button (https://pypi.org/project/django-bootstrap5/), but then the button will be hard to customize. And the gain is very small compared to the alternative of just adding a bit of CSS to a regular HTML button
